---
---

---
---
- the `hello.c` program has been translated by compilation system to an executable object file called `hello` that is stored on the disk.
- to run the file, the name of the executable is typed on the _shell_.
- A shell is a command-line interprator application program that executes user provided commands.
- If the first word of the command line does not correspond to a built-in shell command, then the shell assumes that it is the name of an executable file that it should load and run.
## 1.4.1 - Hardware organization of a System
- In order to understand how a program is executed you need to understand the hardware organization of a system.

**Buses**
- These are electrical 'pathways' that carry _bytes_ between components.
- _Bytes_ - a collection of 8 bits.
- Buses typically transfer fixed size chunks of bytes called _words_
- The number of bytes in a word depends on the system.
- Most machines today have a word size of either 4 or 8 bytes.

**I/O Devices**
- Input / output devices are a way of our system to connect to the external world.
- Each I/O device is connected to the I/O bus by either an _adapter_ or a _controleer_.
- _controllers_ - Chip sets on the device or the computer's motherboard.
- _adapters_ - A card that plugs into the motherboard.
- The sole purpose of the controlers and adapters is to transfer information between the I/O device and the I/O bus.

**Main Memory**
- The main memory is a temporary storage device that holds the program being executed by the processor and the data the program manipulates.
- Logically memory is arranged in a linear array of bytes, each with its own unique address.
- In general, each of the machine level instructions that constitute an executable program occupy a variable number of bytes.

**Processor (Central Processing Unit)**
- The processor is the part of the sytem that inteprets and executes instructions from the main memory.
- The processor contains a word size storage device known as a _register_. This register has a unique name known as the _program counter_(PC) - Address Register.
- The PC points at an address in main memory containing machine level instruction to be executed.
- After the instruction is executed, the PC is updated to point to the next instruction.
- This process repeatedly takes place from the time the computer is powered on to the time it is shut down.
- A processor appears to operate according to a very simple instruction execution model, defined by its instruction set architecture.
- These instructions revolve around the _ALU(arithmetic logic unit)_ - computes new data and adress values, _Register File_ - A small storage device consisting of a collection of word size registers with unique names and the main memory.